One Week with a Pixel 3
=======================

I managed to brick my trusty OnePlus 3T while trying to upgrade to the new
Android Pie public beta (I'm sure it's fixable, but I haven't the energy
or time right now) so I decided to treat myself to a shiny new Pixel 3.

This is a flagship phone, so I had high expectation, and I'm conflicted
about whether I consider it overall an improvement or not - something are
definitely better, but others are worse, and several of the improvements
I'd have got on the 3T Pie upgrade I believe.

## The Good

#### The camera is stunningly good

Really, this was the biggest thing I hoped with the phone, and it took me
a while to be convinced, but the camera really is just better. I hope to
resurrect the 3T and do a side-by-side camera comparison at some point, but
for now I'll just state that the low light performance of the Pixel 3 just
blows any other phone camera I've used out of the water, and on a recent
trip to Portugal several people commented that the camera managed to make
the scene look even better than it looked in life. I'm very happy with
this.

#### The phone book is smarter

I was surprised when calling my local bike shop to see that my phone
logged the name of the shop I was calling without it being in my contacts.
I've not yet had chance to test if this works on incoming calls to, but
I'll be very happy if it does. Some people may have privacy concerns about
this, and I can't see an option to turn it off, but for me this is
a definite improvement, especially if it works for incoming calls - I'm
one of those people who dislikes answering calls if I don't know who is
calling.

#### Wireless charging

I didn't really expect this to be a big change, but I bought a fancy
charging stand with the phone, to see if I'd use it. I ended up shortly
after buying a second, and I expect I'll pick up a third at some point. It
only saves a couple of seconds when I sit down at my desk at work or when
I go to bed, but I find I'm more likely to put my phone on the charging
stand than I used to be to plug it in, so my phone is fully charged more
often.

#### No more accidental ring volume changes

I think this is an Android Pie change rather than a pixel-specific change,
but it has always bugged me that accidentally pressing the volume keys in
my pocket can turn down my ring volume, or turn my phone off silent. That
no longer happens. It still isn't exactly what I want, since it changes
the media volume while the screen is off/locked and there's nothing
playing, but it's much better than it was.

## The Not So Good

#### Random hangs

The phone seems to hang for up to a couple of seconds at a time at random,
especially but not exclusively while web browsing. I never noticed this on
my 3T.

#### Accidental screen touches

Bezel-less design seems to be 'a thing', but I don't understand why people
want it. I keep getting accidental screen touches on the edge of the
screen from where I'm holding the phone. I'm sure I'll find a slightly
different way of gripping it at some point that won't cause this, but the
less phone edge there is to grip the worse this gets.

#### Repeated Google news / now notifications

I know there's a new "Spiderman - Far from Home" trailer. I watched it
when you told me about it yesterday. I don't need to be told 5 times
a day, thanks.

In general, the news app notifications seem to happen much, much more
frequently. I think I'll end up turning them off entirely.

#### The pixel stand app

The app thing that runs when I put my pixel on the stand is stupid. It
shows partial notifications, disabled the fingerprint reader (so I have to
double tap the power button before I can unlock the phone) and won't just
disable sleep, which is what I usually want and which I can do just fine
from developer options when wired charging. I can't see anyway to
customise what happens when the phone is on the stand beyond some trivial
options - hopefully somebody has written something better but I've not
found it yet.

#### Squeeze-to-activate assistant

The squeeze-to-activate function for the assistant seems very flaky. There
are a couple of sensitivity settings though so maybe I just need to fiddle
more.

## The Bad

#### Cost

This phone is undeniably expensive, and the accessories too. This phone
cost more than my laptop. I think this has been noted by the industry, and
the new flagship-lite phones that are coming out are a reaction to this.

#### Lack of headphone socket

I can't use headphones and charge at the same time. On a flight or long
bus ride, this is definitely a downside. Bluetooth drains my trusty QC35s
much faster than a wired connection. There might be a dongle available
that allows both headphones and charger to be used at once, but right now
it's just a pain.

## Conclusion

Before I saw how the photos came out, I was ready to send the phone back
and wait for the next generation. I've just about been pushed over the
hump by the camera quality, and I'll see what I can do about fixing some
of the niggles.

If you've any tips for fixing my complaints, I'd love to hear them so please do [mail me](mailto:duncan.thomas@gmail.com).